Add Barbican adoption with Proteccio HSM integration documentation (#1058)
openstack-k8s-operators/data-plane-adoption: docs_user/modules/proc_adopting-key-manager-service-with-hsm-integration.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="adopting-key-manager-service-with-hsm-integration_{context}"]

= Adopting the {key_manager} with HSM integration

[role="_abstract"]
When your source {OpenStackPreviousInstaller} environment includes Hardware Security Module (HSM) integration, you must use the HSM-enabled adoption approach to preserve HSM functionality and maintain access to HSM-backed secrets.

.Prerequisites

* Source {OpenStackPreviousInstaller} environment with HSM integration configured
* HSM client software and certificates available from accessible URLs
* Target {rhos_acro} environment with HSM infrastructure accessible

> * HSM-enabled {key_manager} container images built and available in your registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The source {OpenStackPreviousInstaller} environment with HSM integration is configured.
* HSM client software and certificates are available from accessible URLs.
* The target {rhos_long} environment with HSM infrastructure is accessible.
* HSM-enabled {key_manager_first_ref} container images are built and available in your registry.
```

[NOTE]
====
When using the automated adoption process with `barbican_hsm_enabled: true`, the required HSM secrets (`hsm-login` and `proteccio-data`) are created automatically. Manual secret creation is only needed when performing manual adoption steps.
====

.Procedure

. Check your source environment configuration to confirm HSM integration:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ ssh tripleo-admin@controller-0.ctlplane \
  "sudo cat /var/lib/config-data/puppet-generated/barbican/etc/barbican/barbican.conf | grep -A5 '\[.*plugin\]'"
----
+

> If you see `[p11_crypto_plugin]` or other HSM-specific sections, continue with HSM adoption.

Reviewer: If customers do not see these results, should they proceed with the "Adopting Key Manager service" procedure instead?

> . Extract the simple crypto KEK from your source environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Extract the simple crypto key encryption keys (KEK) from your source environment:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
$ SIMPLE_CRYPTO_KEK=$(ssh tripleo-admin@controller-0.ctlplane \
  "sudo python3 -c \"import configparser; c = configparser.ConfigParser(); c.read('/var/lib/config-data/puppet-generated/barbican/etc/barbican/barbican.conf'); print(c['simple_crypto_plugin']['kek'])\"")
----

. Add the KEK to the target environment:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc set data secret/osp-secret "BarbicanSimpleCryptoKEK=${SIMPLE_CRYPTO_KEK}"
----

. Create HSM-specific secrets in the target environment (if not using automated adoption):
+
[source,bash]
----
# Create HSM login credentials secret
$ oc create secret generic hsm-login \
  --from-literal=PKCS11Pin=<your_hsm_password> \
  -n openstack

# Create HSM client configuration and certificates secret
$ oc create secret generic proteccio-data \
  --from-file=client.crt=<path_to_client_cert> \
  --from-file=client.key=<path_to_client_key> \
  --from-file=10_8_60_93.CRT=<path_to_server_cert> \
  --from-file=proteccio.rc=<path_to_hsm_config> \
  -n openstack
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> When using the automated adoption with `barbican_hsm_enabled: true`, these secrets are created automatically by the `barbican_adoption` role. The secret names default to `hsm-login` and `proteccio-data`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use the automated adoption by setting `barbican_hsm_enabled: true`, the `barbican_adoption` role creates these secrets automatically. The secret names default to `hsm-login` and `proteccio-data`.
```

      pkcs11:
        loginSecret: hsm-login
        clientDataSecret: proteccio-data
        clientDataPath: /etc/proteccio
      barbicanAPI:
        replicas: 1
        override:
          service:
            internal:
              metadata:
                annotations:
                  metallb.universe.tf/address-pool: internalapi
                  metallb.universe.tf/allow-shared-ip: internalapi
                  metallb.universe.tf/loadBalancerIPs: 172.17.0.80
              spec:
                type: LoadBalancer
      barbicanWorker:
        replicas: 1
      barbicanKeystoneListener:
        replicas: 1
'
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Replace the placeholder values with your actual HSM configuration. The exact parameters depend on your HSM vendor and configuration:

* `library_path`: Path to the PKCS#11 library (e.g., `/usr/lib64/libnethsm.so` for Proteccio)
* `token_labels`: HSM partition name (e.g., `VHSM1`)
* `mkek_label` and `hmac_label`: Key labels configured in the HSM
* `loginSecret`: Name of the Kubernetes secret containing the HSM PIN
* `clientDataSecret`: Name of the Kubernetes secret containing HSM certificates and configuration

> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `library_path` specifies the path to the PKCS#11 library, for example, `/usr/lib64/libnethsm.so` for Proteccio).
* `token_labels` specifies the HSM partition name, for example, `VHSM1`.
* `mkek_label` and `hmac_label` specify key labels that are configured in the HSM.
* `loginSecret` specifies the name of the Kubernetes secret that contains the HSM PIN.
* `clientDataSecret` specifies the name of the Kubernetes secret that contains the HSM certificates and configuration.
```

.Verification

. Verify that both secret stores are available:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ openstack secret store list
----

> . Test HSM backend functionality:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Test the HSM back-end functionality:
```

Reviewer: What does the output look like if the back-end is functional and if it's not functional?
